Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m going
to explain an American dystopian action film
called “Chaos Walking,” Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care!
The movie is set on a planet far, far away from
earth called the New World. A planet where the sun
never sets. It is the year 2258 AD. Searching
for a better life, some humans left earth and
colonized a part of the planet. Humans have
found everything they had back on earth and more
in the New World. When humans first entered the
new planet, they realized that all men have been
afflicted with a condition called the Noise. This
condition causes everyone to see and hear a man’s
thoughts. Although this condition lays bare one’s
secret thoughts and hence can be a disadvantage,
one can do other cool things like
creating 3D holograms using their noise
which others can see with their naked eyes.
The human colonists were involved in a bitter
civil war with the native humanoid species
referred to as The Spackle. In the war,
the spackle ostensibly killed all the
female human colonists while half the men
survived. Since then, the first wave of
human colonists lost contact with the earth
and the outside world. Todd Hewitt is a young man
who lives in the human colony called Prentisstown.
Todd lost his mother and father at a young age
in the war and lives with his adoptive fathers
Ben Moore and Cillian Boyd. Unlike his fathers,
Todd has never seen a woman. He spends most of his
time helping his fathers in the field. One day,
he aspires to be a man like the colony’s mayor
David Prentiss. Unlike other men, Prentiss
has mastered the art of controlling his Noise,
making his thoughts difficult to see and
hear. Other prominent residents of the
town include the eccentric preacher
Aaron and David Prentiss’s son Davy.
Todd doesn’t see eye to eye with Davy as both
always compete to win the mayor’s approval.
One day, the second wave of human colonists
arrive onboard a mothership. They send a small
scout ship carrying three human crew members to
investigate the planet and make contact with the
first wave of human colonists. Unfortunately,
upon entering New World’s atmosphere, the
scout ship catches fire and crashes deep in the
woods near Prentisstown. While helping his dad,
Todd spots someone stealing food from his barn.
He chases the thief into the woods with his dog,
Manchee. He eventually loses the thief but comes
across the crash site. He speculates that the
survivor must have been the thief. He immediately
rushes to inform the mayor about the spaceship.
On his way, he tries to keep quiet, but the other
men hear and see his thoughts about the crashed
ship, and they all head to investigate the crash
scene and scavenge some parts of the ship.
After learning that the survivor didn’t have any
noise, Mayor Prentiss concludes that it must be
a girl and orders his men to look for her.
While Todd is alone, the girl reveals herself.
Todd is scared, shocked, and enchanted to
see a girl, as he has never seen one before.
But unable to control his noise, Todd
unintentionally alerts the town dwellers
about her whereabouts. The girl runs deeper
into the woods, but Prentiss surrounds her
with a 3D hologram cage and captures her.
Prentiss takes her to his home and expresses
his condolences to her over the loss of the other
two crew members. The girl learns about the noise
and the war with the Spackle, which resulted
in the massacre of all women of Prentisstown.
Prentiss asks her about her mission, and she
tells him that she came here on a scout ship
sent by the mothership to make contact with the
first wave colonies. The mothership is the largest
ship in the second colonists’ fleet and holds 4000
people. It will soon come to rescue her. The girl
starts getting suspicious of Prentiss’s intention
when he keeps pressing her more about the ship,
inquiring about its landing site and time.
Prentiss is suddenly forced to go outside to
address the men, who are creating a lot of noise
and burning with curiosity about the female guest.
Before leaving, Davy is charged with keeping
an eye on her. The spoiled brat starts going
through the girl’s bag and unwittingly toys
with one of her gadgets, which causes it
to shoot sparks, helping her disappear.
While escaping, the girl overhears Prentiss
talking to the town’s influential preacher Aaron
from under the floorboards. Prentiss says he is
fed up with living in “exile.” He plans to seize
her colony's mothership and use it to take over
the rest of the planet. He says they must prevent
her from contacting and warning the mothership.
Meanwhile, the preacher is convinced that the
girl is an angel descended from heaven to punish
the men of Prentisstown for their “sins.”
As Prentiss and others venture out to look for
the girl, Todd steals the girl’s bag from the
mayor’s home, hoping to find some “cool stuff.”
After returning home, Todd starts going through
the bag, but to his surprise, he finds the girl
hiding in his barn. Suddenly, one of Prentiss’s
men comes looking for the girl after spotting her
jacket nearby. Todd lets the girl hide and sends
the man away. Ben and Cillian learn about the
girl and lock her in the barn. They tell their
son he must give the girl back to Prentiss to
avoid attracting any trouble, but Todd refuses
to comply. Todd has started liking the girl and
insists on helping her. Ben and Cillian eventually
relent, releasing this might be the only chance
Todd will get of starting his own family.
Ben tells Todd to take the girl to Farbranch,
another human town on the planet, which
Todd never knew existed. Cillian worries
that people there are hostile to Prentisstown
men, but Ben assures him that they won’t harm
Todd as long as the girl accompanies her.
But before Todd could leave with the girl,
Prentiss and his men arrive looking for her. The
girl escapes on a motorcycle while Todd chases
after her on a horse. Upset at Todd for hiding
the girl, Prentiss kills Cillian. Giving Ben a
chance to save his own and Todd’s life, Prentiss
then asks him to help find Todd and the girl.
Todd eventually catches up to the girl. After
losing their motorcycle and horse to an accident,
they both set out on foot to Farbranch,
accompanied by Todd’s dog. Along their journey,
Todd finally gets to know a girl. He is amazed by
her strength and at times finds himself struggling
to keep up with her speed. She initially doesn’t
trust him, but Todd eventually wins her trust
and hunts a snake for lunch for her. She finally
tells Todd that her name is Viola. She was born
on the mothership, and her parents died during
the 64 year-long journey from Earth to the New
World. Viola’s grandparents signed up for the
journey, hoping to find better opportunities
on the far away planet. Enroute to Farbranch, Todd
is attacked by a Spackle. Todd subdues the Spackle
and proceeds to kill it, but Viola teaches
him kindness and asks him to let it go.
They arrive at Farbranch and learn that it
is inhabited by men, women, and children.
They are greeted by the town’s mayor Hildy.
Unaware of Farbranch’s dislike for Prentisstown,
Viola discloses that Todd is from Prentisstown.
Todd is immediately put in handcuffs while Hildy
talks to Viola in private. The town’s men
confront Todd, but after talking to Viola,
the mayor tells them to back off.
Prentiss and his men continue to pursue
Todd and the girl. Preacher Aaron is
becoming increasingly unstable and,
at times, clashes with Prentiss. Mayor Hildy
gives Todd and Viola shelter and food. She also
tells them that Viola can make contact with her
mothership from Haven, the first human settlement
in the New World, which Todd didn’t know about
either. Viola decides to head for Haven the next
morning. Seeing her so adamant about leaving, Todd
starts wondering what if Viola stayed with him and
kissed him instead. Of course, Viola hears his
thoughts, and Todd, embarrassed, apologizes.
After dinner, Hildy gives them separate rooms to
rest, but the thought of Viola leaving doesn’t
let Todd sleep. He finds his mother’s journal that
Ben put in his bag and shows it to Viola, who also
is still awake. Viola asks him what his mother
has written, and Todd reveals that he doesn’t
know because he can’t read. Prentiss town’s mayor
Aaron burned all the books when Todd was a child.
He felt that being born with a noise was enough
of an education. Viola offers to read it for Todd.
Todd’s mother's name is Karyssa. Karyssa writes,
“My dearest Todd. I begin this journal on the day
of your birth. You’re the most beautiful thing
I’ve seen in New World. I wish your pa were here
to see you, but the Lord saw fit to take him.
You’re going to be tall, strong, and handsome
like your pa. The ladies of New World won’t know
what hit ‘em. There’s a man named David Prentiss
who convinced us all to find a settlement on
the far side of the swamp so that the noise
from the rest of the New World won’t reach us.
Prentiss seems so full of secrets and shame,
and this place doesn't allow that. He’s better
at making his noise disappear than any man here.
It’s so loud here all the time. The men can’t
stand women knowing everything about them,
and them not knowing anything about us. Almost
all the men here, they’re breaking down. Prentiss
and Aaron are getting inside the men’s heads.
They’ve given all us women a curfew. The men are
turning on us. Aaron, our holy man, said women
don’t have Noise because we’ve got no souls.
I can see what’s coming clear as day. If
things go wrong, keep searching for hope.”
Todd realizes that the women were not killed by
the native aliens, but rather by Prentiss and the
men of Prentisstown. He feels angry and betrayed
that everything he had been told was a lie.
Prentiss and his men arrive at Farbranch
demanding Viola. Hildy and other Farbranch
town dwellers distract them while Todd and Viola
try to escape. Preacher Aaron discovers them,
forcing them to hide inside a storeroom.
A Farbranch woman helps them keep Aaron
and other men away with a rifle.
Prentiss sends Ben to convince Todd to
surrender Viola in exchange for sparing Todd’s
life. Todd confronts Ben about the journal. Ben
admits that he tried but couldn’t do anything
to help the women. It was chaos. The best he
could do was keep Todd safe. Ben apologizes to
him for keeping him in the dark and tells Todd,
“Let me protect you now.” Prentiss gives Ben
and Todd an ultimatum to bring the girl out.
Ben appears from the store, followed by
Viola. As she proceeds towards Prentiss,
he tells her he is pleased to see her again.
But to Prentiss and other mens’ astonishment,
Viola suddenly disappears into thin air. It was
a 3D hologram noise created by Ben to distract
Prentiss and others while the real Viola,
Todd, and Manchee fled from the back door.
However, Preacher Aaron spots them and starts
chasing them. They come across a boat and
escape through the river. Aaron continues to
pursue them and knocks them over the boat.
Todd manages to save and get away with
Viola, but unfortunately, the psychopath
Aaron kills Manchee, further enraging Todd.
Manchee’s death extremely upsets Todd, but Viola
comforts him, and they continue on their journey
to Haven. The support towers for a monorail built
by first wave colonists show them the path.
On their way, Viola and Todd come across the
ruins of the first colony ship. Prentiss and his
men begin to catch up with them. Todd suggests
they keep moving, but Viola tells him that they
don’t have much time left, and they can use the
ship’s emergency transmitter. They scan the
ruins and eventually find the transmitter,
but Viola learns that the antenna is
damaged. Viola loses hope, but Todd
offers to repair it. He climbs on the antenna and
asks Viola to be on standby to send the signal.
Todd manages to fix the antenna as Prentiss
and his men arrive with Ben. Prentiss threatens
to kill Ben should Todd not surrender, but Ben
tells his son not to cave in to his demand.
Meanwhile, Preacher Aaron sneaks
into the ship and attacks Viola.
Aaron regrets killing the women of Prentisstown.
He laments not being able to tell the voice of God
from the Noise. He believes he is a
sinner and pleads with Viola to kill him
and purify him. Left with no choice, Viola
immolates Aaron with one of her gadgets.
As he burns, the preacher exclaims, “I am baptized
with fire! I’m the sinner”, and passes away.
Viola then sends the SOS signal to the mothership
while Todd surrenders himself before Prentiss.
Prentiss asks Todd about the girl, but this
time, Todd manages to hide his noise. Angered,
Prentiss shoots his father, and Todd immediately
rushes to Ben's side. Ben again apologizes to
Todd for keeping him in the dark
about his mother and slips him a knife
before passing away. Todd attacks Prentiss
with the knife, but he is sent rolling down,
losing the knife in the process. Todd runs for
cover, but Prentiss wounds him with the gun.
Todd then sneaks up on Prentiss from behind but
only to realize that it is his illusion. Prentiss
then proceeds to shoot him, but Todd distracts
him with an illusion of his mother and other
women of Prentisstown, calling him a coward.
They back Prentiss up on the edge of a cliff.
Viola then appears and attacks him with a pipe.
He dodges the strike and grabs the pipe but loses
his balance in the process. Viola then frees
her grip, and Prentiss falls to his death.
As Viola tends to a badly wounded Todd, the
colony mothership arrives, causing Davy and the
remaining Prentisstown men to flee in fear.
Todd later gains consciousness in the mother
ship's medical room, fully healed with Viola by
her side. Viola reveals that she is going to live
in the New World with him and takes
him to meet the other colonists.
Subscribe for more videos like
this, turn on notifications,
and leave a like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.